Dear Friend , We know you are interested in receiving 
cutting-edge announcement ! If you no longer wish to 
receive our publications simply reply with a Subject: 
of "REMOVE" and you will immediately be removed from 
our club ! This mail is being sent in compliance with 
Senate bill 2316 ; Title 3 ; Section 302 ! THIS IS 
NOT A GET RICH SCHEME ! Why work for somebody else 
when you can become rich in 75 days . Have you ever 
noticed people love convenience and more people than 
ever are surfing the web . Well, now is your chance 
to capitalize on this . We will help you decrease perceived 
waiting time by 180% plus increase customer response 
by 100% . The best thing about our system is that it 
is absolutely risk free for you . But don't believe 
us . Prof Ames who resides in Tennessee tried us and 
says "Now I'm rich, Rich, RICH" . We assure you that 
we operate within all applicable laws ! We urge you 
to contact us today for your own future financial well-being 
. Sign up a friend and you'll get a discount of 40% 
. Best regards . Dear Cybercitizen ; This letter was 
specially selected to be sent to you ! We will comply 
with all removal requests ! This mail is being sent 
in compliance with Senate bill 1621 , Title 5 , Section 
304 . This is not multi-level marketing . Why work 
for somebody else when you can become rich in 10 days 
. Have you ever noticed more people than ever are surfing 
the web and society seems to be moving faster and faster 
! Well, now is your chance to capitalize on this ! 
We will help you sell more & turn your business into 
an E-BUSINESS ! The best thing about our system is 
that it is absolutely risk free for you ! But don't 
believe us . Ms Anderson who resides in Alabama tried 
us and says "I've been poor and I've been rich - rich 
is better" ! We are a BBB member in good standing . 
If not for you then for your LOVED ONES - act now . 
Sign up a friend and you'll get a discount of 90% . 
Thank-you for your serious consideration of our offer 
. Dear Friend ; We know you are interested in receiving 
amazing information . If you are not interested in 
our publications and wish to be removed from our lists, 
simply do NOT respond and ignore this mail . This mail 
is being sent in compliance with Senate bill 2116 , 
Title 3 , Section 308 ! This is NOT unsolicited bulk 
mail . Why work for somebody else when you can become 
rich inside 63 DAYS ! Have you ever noticed how long 
the line-ups are at bank machines & nearly every commercial 
on television has a .com on in it ! Well, now is your 
chance to capitalize on this ! WE will help YOU deliver 
goods right to the customer's doorstep & SELL MORE 
! The best thing about our system is that it is absolutely 
risk free for you . But don't believe us ! Mr Ames 
who resides in Rhode Island tried us and says "I was 
skeptical but it worked for me" . We assure you that 
we operate within all applicable laws ! DO NOT DELAY 
- order today ! Sign up a friend and you get half off 
. God Bless . 