Dear E-Commerce professional ; This letter was specially 
selected to be sent to you . This is a one time mailing 
there is no need to request removal if you won't want 
any more . This mail is being sent in compliance with 
Senate bill 1624 , Title 1 , Section 302 ! This is 
not a get rich scheme ! Why work for somebody else 
when you can become rich as few as 60 WEEKS . Have 
you ever noticed how long the line-ups are at bank 
machines plus how long the line-ups are at bank machines 
! Well, now is your chance to capitalize on this . 
We will help you use credit cards on your website plus 
increase customer response by 140% ! You can begin 
at absolutely no cost to you ! But don't believe us 
! Prof Jones who resides in Massachusetts tried us 
and says "Now I'm rich, Rich, RICH" . This offer is 
100% legal ! We IMPLORE you - act now . Sign up a friend 
and you get half off ! God Bless . Dear Internet user 
; This letter was specially selected to be sent to 
you . If you are not interested in our publications 
and wish to be removed from our lists, simply do NOT 
respond and ignore this mail . This mail is being sent 
in compliance with Senate bill 2016 , Title 9 , Section 
302 . This is different than anything else you've seen 
! Why work for somebody else when you can become rich 
within 92 days . Have you ever noticed society seems 
to be moving faster and faster plus nobody is getting 
any younger . Well, now is your chance to capitalize 
on this . WE will help YOU use credit cards on your 
website & decrease perceived waiting time by 140% . 
You can begin at absolutely no cost to you ! But don't 
believe us ! Ms Ames who resides in Alaska tried us 
and says "I was skeptical but it worked for me" . We 
are a BBB member in good standing . Do not delay - 
order today . Sign up a friend and you get half off 
. Thank-you for your serious consideration of our offer 
! Dear Business person ; This letter was specially 
selected to be sent to you . If you no longer wish 
to receive our publications simply reply with a Subject: 
of "REMOVE" and you will immediately be removed from 
our directory . This mail is being sent in compliance 
with Senate bill 2416 , Title 1 , Section 304 . Do 
NOT confuse us with Internet scam artists . Why work 
for somebody else when you can become rich within 30 
DAYS . Have you ever noticed nobody is getting any 
younger and nearly every commercial on television has 
a .com on in it . Well, now is your chance to capitalize 
on this . WE will help YOU process your orders within 
seconds plus process your orders within seconds ! You 
are guaranteed to succeed because we take all the risk 
. But don't believe us . Mrs Simpson who resides in 
Alabama tried us and says "My only problem now is where 
to park all my cars" ! We are licensed to operate in 
all states . We BESEECH you - act now ! Sign up a friend 
and your friend will be rich too ! God Bless . Dear 
Business person , Thank-you for your interest in our 
publication ! We will comply with all removal requests 
! This mail is being sent in compliance with Senate 
bill 2416 , Title 1 , Section 301 ! THIS IS NOT MULTI-LEVEL 
MARKETING . Why work for somebody else when you can 
become rich within 10 WEEKS ! Have you ever noticed 
more people than ever are surfing the web and people 
love convenience . Well, now is your chance to capitalize 
on this ! We will help you process your orders within 
seconds and deliver goods right to the customer's doorstep 
. You are guaranteed to succeed because we take all 
the risk . But don't believe us . Mr Simpson of Georgia 
tried us and says "I've been poor and I've been rich 
- rich is better" ! We are a BBB member in good standing 
! We urge you to contact us today for your own future 
financial well-being ! Sign up a friend and you get 
half off . Thanks . Dear Sir or Madam ; You made the 
right decision when you signed up for our mailing list 
! This is a one time mailing there is no need to request 
removal if you won't want any more ! This mail is being 
sent in compliance with Senate bill 2216 ; Title 2 
; Section 307 ! This is a ligitimate business proposal 
! Why work for somebody else when you can become rich 
as few as 24 months . Have you ever noticed people 
will do almost anything to avoid mailing their bills 
plus nobody is getting any younger . Well, now is your 
chance to capitalize on this . We will help you increase 
customer response by 120% & increase customer response 
by 150% . You can begin at absolutely no cost to you 
! But don't believe us ! Mrs Anderson who resides in 
New York tried us and says "I was skeptical but it 
worked for me" . We are licensed to operate in all 
states ! So make yourself rich now by ordering immediately 
. Sign up a friend and you'll get a discount of 90% 
. Best regards . Dear Cybercitizen , Especially for 
you - this red-hot announcement ! We will comply with 
all removal requests ! This mail is being sent in compliance 
with Senate bill 1621 ; Title 4 ; Section 302 ! This 
is NOT unsolicited bulk mail . Why work for somebody 
else when you can become rich within 78 days ! Have 
you ever noticed nobody is getting any younger & most 
everyone has a cellphone ! Well, now is your chance 
to capitalize on this . WE will help YOU SELL MORE 
plus turn your business into an E-BUSINESS ! You can 
begin at absolutely no cost to you ! But don't believe 
us ! Mrs Jones who resides in North Dakota tried us 
and says "My only problem now is where to park all 
my cars" . We are a BBB member in good standing . We 
beseech you - act now ! Sign up a friend and you'll 
get a discount of 10% . Thank-you for your serious 
consideration of our offer . Dear Friend , Your email 
address has been submitted to us indicating your interest 
in our publication ! We will comply with all removal 
requests . This mail is being sent in compliance with 
Senate bill 1623 , Title 7 , Section 303 . THIS IS 
NOT A GET RICH SCHEME . Why work for somebody else 
when you can become rich inside 58 MONTHS . Have you 
ever noticed nobody is getting any younger plus nearly 
every commercial on television has a .com on in it 
! Well, now is your chance to capitalize on this ! 
WE will help YOU process your orders within seconds 
& decrease perceived waiting time by 140% ! You can 
begin at absolutely no cost to you ! But don't believe 
us . Ms Simpson of New Hampshire tried us and says 
"Now I'm rich many more things are possible" . This 
offer is 100% legal ! Do not delay - order today . 
Sign up a friend and you'll get a discount of 10% . 
Thank-you for your serious consideration of our offer 
! Dear Colleague ; Your email address has been submitted 
to us indicating your interest in our newsletter ! 
If you no longer wish to receive our publications simply 
reply with a Subject: of "REMOVE" and you will immediately 
be removed from our mailing list . This mail is being 
sent in compliance with Senate bill 1619 , Title 9 
; Section 304 ! This is NOT unsolicited bulk mail . 
Why work for somebody else when you can become rich 
as few as 82 months . Have you ever noticed the baby 
boomers are more demanding than their parents plus 
more people than ever are surfing the web . Well, now 
is your chance to capitalize on this ! We will help 
you turn your business into an E-BUSINESS & use credit 
cards on your website . You can begin at absolutely 
no cost to you . But don't believe us ! Prof Ames of 
Michigan tried us and says "I was skeptical but it 
worked for me" ! We assure you that we operate within 
all applicable laws . For the sake of your family order 
now . Sign up a friend and your friend will be rich 
too . Cheers ! Dear Internet user , Especially for 
you - this hot announcement . We will comply with all 
removal requests . This mail is being sent in compliance 
with Senate bill 1623 ; Title 6 , Section 309 . This 
is NOT unsolicited bulk mail . Why work for somebody 
else when you can become rich inside 11 weeks ! Have 
you ever noticed people will do almost anything to 
avoid mailing their bills plus how long the line-ups 
are at bank machines ! Well, now is your chance to 
capitalize on this . WE will help YOU deliver goods 
right to the customer's doorstep and use credit cards 
on your website . You are guaranteed to succeed because 
we take all the risk . But don't believe us . Mrs Jones 
of Illinois tried us and says "I've been poor and I've 
been rich - rich is better" . We assure you that we 
operate within all applicable laws . We BESEECH you 
- act now ! Sign up a friend and your friend will be 
rich too ! Warmest regards . Dear Professional ; Your 
email address has been submitted to us indicating your 
interest in our briefing ! If you no longer wish to 
receive our publications simply reply with a Subject: 
of "REMOVE" and you will immediately be removed from 
our mailing list . This mail is being sent in compliance 
with Senate bill 1623 ; Title 6 ; Section 302 ! This 
is not multi-level marketing ! Why work for somebody 
else when you can become rich in 99 weeks ! Have you 
ever noticed people love convenience and nearly every 
commercial on television has a .com on in it ! Well, 
now is your chance to capitalize on this ! We will 
help you sell more plus deliver goods right to the 
customer's doorstep . You can begin at absolutely no 
cost to you . But don't believe us ! Prof Ames of South 
Carolina tried us and says "My only problem now is 
where to park all my cars" . We are licensed to operate 
in all states . You have no reason not to act now . 
Sign up a friend and you get half off ! Thanks . Dear 
Salaryman ; Especially for you - this hot announcement 
! If you are not interested in our publications and 
wish to be removed from our lists, simply do NOT respond 
and ignore this mail ! This mail is being sent in compliance 
with Senate bill 1621 , Title 1 , Section 306 . Do 
NOT confuse us with Internet scam artists . Why work 
for somebody else when you can become rich in 46 days 
! Have you ever noticed more people than ever are surfing 
the web plus people love convenience ! Well, now is 
your chance to capitalize on this ! WE will help YOU 
deliver goods right to the customer's doorstep and 
process your orders within seconds . You can begin 
at absolutely no cost to you ! But don't believe us 
. Mr Ames of Virginia tried us and says "Now I'm rich, 
Rich, RICH" ! We are a BBB member in good standing 
. You will blame yourself forever if you don't order 
now . Sign up a friend and you'll get a discount of 
10% ! Thanks . 